Here's something that nobody talks about
that pleasure is actually the gateway
that you need to heal. And the wild
thing about it is that this pleasure is
available to you at any moment actually
in this moment right now. The thing is
that most people can't maintain it for
like more than a minute or two. And so
in this video I'm going to talk about
how to maintain it and how to use
exactly that mechanism to make it so
that when you're in a traumatic
response, you can get out of it really
easily.
When I was just first starting
meditating and this whole spiritual
self-development journey, I was trying
to be as spiritual as possible, you
know, and I was like eating really
slowly and being very present and and I
was, you know, trying to show everybody
that I was very controlled. I think I
probably just looked like stupid and
rigid
and and I felt like there was this idea
of presence is like a presence is a
should
something that I needed to do to become
good enough or some version of that. And
then a little bit later I was reading
Titchen Not Han and he was talking about
doing the dishes and how pleasurable the
warm water was and how it was like such
an enjoyable experience for him to do
the dishes
and I hated doing the dish. I still to
this day I'm not like yay dishes until I
think about oh wait I can have a lot of
pleasure doing the dishes. And it's
true. It's just like if you do the
dishes in this very slow way and it's a
very sensual approach, all of a sudden
it's this very pleasurable experience.
And so I'm doing the dishes and I
started to think about this experience I
had where I was eating slowly and being
all spiritual
and I and
there I was doing the dishes and I was
doing them really slowly. The only
difference was I was enjoying myself
doing the dishes and I wasn't enjoying
myself while I was eating in this place.
And wait a second, hold on. Like the
pleasure of the experience is what's
actually in the presence. Presence isn't
a trying. Presence is the pleasure.
And so then later on when I was studying
the nervous system and and I heard about
the sympathetic and the parasympathetic
nervous system, what I started to
realize was that when we feel pleasure,
we feel safe. We feel like we can rest.
And pleasure is such an incredible like
incredibly important part of allowing
ourselves to rest so that we have
energy, so that we're not stressed. It's
not pleasure like, oh, I'm having sex
pleasure or I'm getting drunk pleasure.
It's a it's a very simple pleasure and
the best description I have I've heard
for it is
the awareness of sensation moving
through your body.
Okay, let's try our first experiment.
Take a moment, make yourself
comfortable,
and give your body just a little shake
into a little more comfort.
and close your eyes.
Doesn't matter if you're lying or
sitting down. Just close your eyes
and notice that there are sensations in
your body.
Little tingles here and there. Maybe
feeling of numbness here or there. Maybe
some pulsing here and there.
And then notice whatever sensation you
choose, notice that there's movement to
that sensation.
All your sensations are moving. Maybe
just a little bit, maybe a lot.
And your job is just to focus
without straining, without trying, just
focus.
Putting your attention gently on the
movement of your sensations.
Don't forget to breathe. Just as a
matter of fact, take a nice enjoyable
breath in.
And keep on noticing how your sensations
move.
You don't try to get them to move
anywhere or be anywhere. You just notice
there are sensations in your body
moving.
and see what it's like to enjoy
these sensations.
Just
enjoy them.
This is accessible to us at any moment.
There's no time when a breath in isn't
pleasurable.
And people say, "Oh, I want to feel good
in life. I want to feel joy. I want to
feel pleasure." But what I've noticed is
that people can't actually stick with
the pleasure of just breathing in and
out usually for more than a minute or
two. And it's because we have not really
figured out how to rest well
that it's a little overwhelming for us
to actually allow ourselves to rest
because the mind starts kicking up all
sorts of dust, right? All sorts of, oh,
we got to do blah blah blah blah blah
blah blah blah. and immediately takes us
away from the pleasure of just that
simple pleasure of being alive. As if we
couldn't do the stuff and still feel
pleasure. As if typing on a keyboard is
any less pleasurable than doing the
dishes. As if doing the dishes can't be
pleasurable.
And it's such a profound experience to
reduce stress, to reduce anxiety by just
getting in touch with the simple
pleasure that's available to us all the
time. And it's such an incredibly
important part of transformation.
Totally. Meaning, if your nervous system
can't relax, it's really hard to see
through limiting beliefs. It's really
hard to have emotionally
transformed experience. It's it's really
hard to let go of trauma.
The way I like to define trauma is when
you are experiencing the present as the
past. So, think about it like um a guy
who went to Afghanistan
and now he's in Ohio and a car backfires
and he thinks it's a bomb and he's down
in the corner covering so that he
doesn't get wiped out by an IED or
whatever it is.
That's trauma. You're in the past.
You're taking the present. You're making
it the past. And so that often means
we're treating our husbands and wives
like our mothers or fathers or we're
hearing what somebody's saying as if it
resonates with the way that our brother
used to make fun of us. Whatever it is,
it's it's that pattern that we're living
in. And when we're in that pattern, the
trick is and the trick for me with my
wife was that's the great moment to
downregulate. just take that breath or
put attention into the way that your
fabric feels underneath your knee or
whatever it is. You just immediately
downregulate and then that gives you
enough space to act as if it's the
present because what you're literally
doing is reminding yourself I am here
right now. There's a way that people do
it by just literally looking around
putting all of their attention into the
senses of their eyes. So they either
coming to their senses or they're um
bringing in some breath so that they can
see oh I'm here right now and now I have
a different choice. I can make a
different choice. And it is a wonderful
way to deal with trauma or the other way
of saying trauma a pattern that you keep
on repeating that you say I got to stop
yelling at my blah blah blah or I have
to stop being defensive or I have
whatever those things are that you're
telling yourself. These patterns that
you know you've been in your whole life.
Those are the times to really
downregulate.
Let's get into experiment number two.
Take a moment. Close your eyes.
Take another deep breath. Big inhale.
Long exhale.
And I want you to just feel your body
right now. What is it to be in your body
right now?
How does it feel in your feet and your
knees and your eyes and your jaw? Like
what does it feel like? And just bring
awareness to you here right now.
And now just do this simple little
experiment without going into the past
or to the future.
Don't look for evidence from something
that has happened long time ago or in
the last minute. And don't look for
evidence for what you think is going to
happen, what you imagine is going to
happen in the future. test with only the
evidence that is right here, right now.
Find out if there's anything wrong with
you
in this moment.
What's wrong with you in this moment?
being only with what is happening right
now.
You might feel discomfort, but does that
mean there's something wrong with you?
No. In this moment,
the only moment that has ever existed is
this moment. What's wrong with you?
Hey, if you found this video helpful,
here's a way you can get some more tools
to reduce stress. Just go here or click
on the link below.